% glob-ih(1)
% Qinka <qinka@live.com>
% 1-Oct-2016

# NAME
glob-ih - the helper of identification

# SYNOPSIS

**glob-ih** -m|--mix [-f sec|--fix=sec] [-v]  
**glob-ih** -t[timeform]|--time-print[=format] [-f sec|--fix=sec]   
**glob-ih** -?|--help
**glob-ih** -V|--version

# DESCRIPTION

**glob-ih** is a helper of identification, when you are trying to upload 
some thing to your site, and it also can print currrent time in a Haskell
Data.Time style.

**glob-ih** will hash your password to a time-related token, and a string of time.

# OPTIONS

`-m`, `--mix`

> To mix the input via 'stdin' with token and timestamp, and output them to 'stdout'.

`-t[timeform]`, `--time-print[=timeform]`

> To print the current time. You can change the timestamp form with "timeform", (see TIME FORMAT).

`-f sec`, `--fix=sec`

> To fix the delay between diffirent server.

`-?`, `--help`

> To print the help.

`-v`, `--verbose`

> To show the detail of the *glob-ih*.

`-V`, `--version`

> To print the version of *glob-ih*.

# TIME FORMAT

We use %-coded string to format the time.

`%%`

> Output character '%'.

`%t`

> Output character tab.

`%n`

> For a new line.

Glibc-style modifiers can be used before the letter (here marked as z).

`%-z`

> For no padding.

`%_z`

> For padding with spaces.

`%0z`

> For padding  with zeros.

`%^z`

> To convert to upper case.

`%#z`

> To convert to lower case (consistently, unlike glibc).

`%z`

> Output timezone offset in the format -HHMM.

`%Z`

> Output timezone name.

`%c`

> As a default date & time format locale (e.g. %a %b %e %H:%M:%S %Z %Y).

`%R`

> Same as %H:%M.

`%T`

> Same as %H:%M:%S.

`%X`

> As default time format locale (e.g. %H:%M:%S).

`%r`

> As default 12-hour-format locale (e.g. %I:%M:%S %p).

`%P`

> Day-half of day from (am and pm locale), converted to lowercase, am, pm.

`%p`

> Day-half of day from (am and pm locale), AM, PM.

`%H`

> Hour of day (24-hour), 0-padded to two chars, 00 - 23.

`%k`

> Hour of day (24-hour), space-padded to two chars, 0 - 23.

`%I`

> Hour of day-half (12-hour), 0-padded to two chars, 01 - 12.

`%l`

> Hour of day-half (12-hour), space-padded to two chars, 1 - 12.

`%M`

> Minute of hour, 0-padded to two chars, 00 - 59.

`%S`

> Second of minute (without decimal part), 0-padded to two chars, 00 - 60.
`%q`

> Picosecond of second, 0-padded to twelve chars, 000000000000 - 999999999999.

`%Q`

> Decimal point and fraction of second, up to 12 second decimals, without trailing zeros. For a whole number of seconds, %Q produces the empty string.

`%s`

> Number of whole seconds since the Unix epoch. For times before the Unix epoch, this is a negative number. Note that in %s.%q and %s%Q the decimals are positive, not negative. For example, 0.9 seconds before the Unix epoch is formatted as -1.1 with %s%Q.

`%D`

> Same as %m/%d/%y.

`%F`

> Same as %Y-%m-%d.

`%x`

> As the default date format locale (e.g. %m/%d/%y).

`%Y`

> Year, no padding. Note %0Y and %_Y pad to four chars.

`%y`

> Year of century, 0-padded to two chars, 00 - 99.

`%C`

> Century, no padding. Note %0C and %_C pad to two chars.

`%B`

>Month name, long form , January - December.

`%b`, `%h`

> Month name, short form, Jan - Dec.

`%m`

> Month of year, 0-padded to two chars, 01 - 12.

`%d`

> Day of month, 0-padded to two chars, 01 - 31.

`%e`

> Day of month, space-padded to two chars, 1 - 31.

`%j`

> Day of year, 0-padded to three chars, 001 - 366.

`%G`

> Year for Week Date format, no padding. Note %0G and %_G pad to four chars.

`%g`

> Year of century for Week Date format, 0-padded to two chars, 00 - 99.

`%f`

> Century for Week Date format, no padding. Note %0f and %_f pad to two chars.

`%V`

> Week of year for Week Date format, 0-padded to two chars, 01 - 53.

`%u`

> Day of week for Week Date format, 1 - 7.

`%a`

> Day of week, short form, Sun - Sat.

`%A`

> Day of week, long form, Sunday - Saturday.

`%U`

> Week of year where weeks start on Sunday, 0-padded to two chars, 00 - 53.

`%w`

> Day of week number, 0 (= Sunday) - 6 (= Saturday).

`%W`

> Week of year where weeks start on Monday, 0-padded to two chars, 00 - 53.

# EXAMPLE

## MIX MODE

With cURL to update.

```shell
echo curl -X PUT ' -F "var=usual" ' http://localhost:3000/@/~site-theme | glob-ih -m -f30 -v type your password here
```

Output via stdout:
```
curl -X PUT  -F "var=usual"  http://localhost:3000/@/~site-theme-H "Token:cb46e0c41c9e01cda63e166c74bc419266bc935f9cd5a5de6628aefac9ed62acb8a9e64b8faab6e3" -H "Date:Wed, 05 Oct 2016 12:24:51 GMT"
```
Output via stderr
```
curl -X PUT  -F "var=usual"  http://localhost:3000/@/~site-theme-H "Token:cb46e0c41c9e01cda63e166c74bc419266bc935f9cd5a5de6628aefac9ed62acb8a9e64b8faab6e3" -H "Date:Wed, 05 Oct 2016 12:24:51 GMT"
```

## TIME MODE

To print a Haskell style time stamp:
```shell
glob-ih -t
```
And will print: 
```
2016-10-05 12:28:24.600717 UT
```

To print in HTTP style:
```shell
glob-ih -t'%a, %d %b %Y %T GMT'
```
And will print:
```
Wed, 05 Oct 2016 12:32:32 GMT
```

# NOTE

This tool is needed to be used with cURL, and it just append the token and a HTTP-style time stamp at your input's end, then output it via stdout.
If turning on the flag "verbose", the one that will be output via stdout will be output via stderr, too. That is just for debugging.

And DO NOT FORGET TO TYPE YOUR PASSWORD.

## PASSWORD

Glob's password is combined with serial words, split by space.


