% glob-docker(7)
% Qinka <qinka@live.com>
% 2016.10.07

# DESCRIPTION

This page is main about using Glob with Docker. In this page will talk about Docker and Glob.

If you want have a quick start, you can jump to  "**QUICK START**". And if you are interested in config file,
you need to read **glob-launch(1)**.

You need to know how to use Docker, but if you do not, that's OK. This page is being writen easier.

# QUICK START

There are three steps you need to do.

## First Step -- PULL

The first step you need to do is to pull docker images from Docker Hub. 
The images you need are including: one of Glob, and one of Mongo.
You need to run:
```bash
docker pull mongo:latest
docker pull qinka/glob:tag
```
For the tags of Glob, you need to visit [qinka/glob](https://hub.docker.com/r/qinka/glob/tags/) to find out which one you need.
The naming rules of Glob you can see "**DOCKER IMAGE NAMING RULES of Glob**".
And for "quick start", you just need the one whose commit is latest, and with tags : "llvm" and "threaded".

Then we need to configure it.

## Second Step -- CONFIGURE

For mongodb, in fact, you need do any thing. The only one thing you need to do is exporting the port - 27017.

For Glob, you can just copy the following json as the config file.
```JSON
{ "port" : 3000
, "database" :
  { "hostaddr" :"localhost"
  , "database" :"local"
  , "access-mode":"master"
  , "username":"root"
  , "password":"admin"
  , "pool-stripes":10
  , "pool-kept-time":100
  , "pool-strp-max":10
  }
, "title" : "Glob Test"
, "password-environment-variable" :"GLOB_PSK"
, "log-path" :"stdout"
, "listen-type":"*"
}
```
And we suppose that that file is `/path/glob/config`

Then we need to run it!.

## Third Step -- RUN!

*Tom, run! Quick! Run! -- Joke*

Firstly, launch the mongo. You need to run:

```shell
docker run --name glob-db  -p 27017:27017 -d mongo
```
Then launch the Glob, and you need to replace the tag.
You need run:

```shell
docker run -v /path/glob:/etc/glob:ro --name glob -p 3000:3000 qinka/glob:tag -d from local file '/etc/glob/config'
```

Then you can visit http://localhost:3000 . Thought you will get a 500 Internal Error, Glob work.
And about the 500 Internal Error, you need to upload things to server. And you might need to read **glob-makefile(7)**'s Quick Start.

# WITH MONGODB

About how to use mongodb's docker image, you need find them on the Docker Hub or the Internet.
But I suggest you'd better enable the authentication of mongo, for safety and security.

# IMAGES ENTRYPOINT

Since git-commit-2594858, Glob's docker images use entrypoint(entrypoint.sh) instead of cmd(start.sh).
The command to launch, I think, is more similar to natural language. And you can load config from the Internet, environment variables,
or the container's file.

## From URL

If you want to load config from the net, you need such way to launch container.
It's very easy to do that. The only command you need is:

```shell
from url http://your.config.file/url
```

The docker command is:

```shell
docker run -v /path/glob:/etc/glob:ro --name glob -p 3000:3000 qinka/glob:tag -d from url http://your.config.file/url
```

And others are looked same.

## From Local File

In the way - "from local file", the entrypoint.sh will copy you file(in container) to /etc/glob/config.
So there are two ways to "add" your config file to container. The first one is using the volumes.
If you do not know how to use volumes, just search it yourself on the Internet. The second one is
build a image. If you do not how to do that, you might need to search on the Internet, or just try the first one.

And the command is:

```shell
from local file /config/file/path
```

## From Environment Variables

There two step to launch.
Firstly, you need "define" the environment variables for docker, with docker's commands about environment variables.
Secondly, launch with the following command:

```shell
from env
```
The environment variables are including:

**GLOB\_LOG**

> This one point out where to write the log of site.

**GLOB\_PORT**

> This one point out the port glob will be listened.

**GLOB\_DB\_PSM**

> The number of stripes (distinct sub-pools) to maintain.

**GLOB\_TYPE**

> This one point out the listen type of site, including:
> any, ipv4, ipv6, ipv4 only, ipv6 only.

**GLOB\_DB\_ADDR**

> The host name or ip address of the database.

**GLOB\_DB\_USR**

> The name of database' user, which has the right of access, when authentication is needed.

**GLOB\_DB\_NAME**

> The name of the database which will be used.

**GLOB\_DB\_PK**

> Amount of time for which an unused resource is kept open. 

**GLOB\_PSK\_ENV\_VAR**

> This one point out, when glob want to find the password of admin,
> what the environment variable of password is.

**GLOB\_TITLE**

> This one point out the title of site.

**GLOB\_DB\_PS**

> The number of stripes (distinct sub-pools) to maintain.

**GLOB\_DB\_AM**

> The master mode or the slaver mode.

**GLOB\_DB\_PSK**

> The password of database's user, which has the right of access, when authentication is needed.

For example, if you want to set the port listened by Glob, you just need define environment variable "GLOB\_PORT" to be 3000.
If you want to set another environment variable's value to GLOB\_PORT, you just need define "GLOB\_PORT" to `env ANOTHER_EV`.

# DOCKER IMAGE NAMING RULES of Glob

The naming rules of Glob 0.0.10.x's docker images are :

```
glob-0.0.10-docker-<git commit|git tag>-<OS>-<OS version>-<Compiler>_<compiler version>-<arch>[-llvm-<llvm version>][-threaded]
```

\<git commit|git tag\> means the git's commit or tag.  
\<OS\> means the Operating System where Glob is built.  
\<OS version\> is the OS's version or release version.  
\<Compiler\> means the compiler which we used to build Glob, e.g. GHC.  
\<compiler version\> means the version of compiler.  
\<arch\> means the architecture of CPU.  
[-llvm-\<llvm version\>] mean whether the llvm was used, and if llvm used, <llvm version> will show the version of llvm.  
[-threaded] mean whether the flag "-threaded" was enabled. Here, I suggest you'd better not use the ones without "threaded".  
