% glob-makefile(7)
% Qinka <qinka@live.com>
% 2016-10-08

# DESCRIPTION

This page is mainly about using GNU-make and Makefile to upload files to Glob to make that site is visitable.

If you want to have a quick start, sorry, there are no "**QUICK START**" for any one. And you might need to know some tools' usage.
Read **glob-ih(1)** and **glob-timecheck(1)** to find out the usage.


You need to know how to write GNU-make's Makefile. 

# BASIC FRAME

The first step you need to do is that write some basic of the Makefile. The things are including: comments, some basic variables, clean, timecheck, and so on.

## Comments

Comments isn't necessary, but you'd better write it. If you had writen such comments, you would need to read this man page when you do not understand what you had writen.
And you need to write copyright information, and a small snapshot of what it is.

## Basic Variables

Firstly, we need to define some variables about curl, and that isn't necessary.

**CURL\_PATH**

> The path of cURL(1). E.g., `CURL_PATH=curl`

**CURL\_DETAIL**

> The flag of showing the details. E.g., `CURL_DETAIL=' -i '`. NOTE: space between "-i" is necessary.

Then, we need to defined some variables about shell.

**SHELL**

> The shell will be used. E.g., `SHELL=bash`.

**ECHO**

> The shell's built-in command - echo or just the '/bin/path'. E.g., `ECHO=echo`.

Finally, we need to define some about our site.

**SITE\_URL**

> The URL of the site you want to upload to. E.g., `SITE_URL=http://localhost:3000`.

**PSK**

> The password of your site. I suggest to find somewhere security to save password. E.g., `PSK=921 924`.

**IH_PATH**

> The glob-ih(1)'s path. And you can read the man page **glob-ih(1)** for more details. E.g., `IH_PATH=glob-ih`.

**IH_DELAY**

> The system-time diff between the server and you compiler. For normal, you need run `make check-delay` to get the diff, and you need to know that you need to wrire `check-delay` by yourself.
> And this page will tell you how to write such thing. E.g., `IH_DELAY=0`

**IH_NOW**

> Using glob-ih(1) to get the current time in UTC. You can also use command `date -u "+%Y-%m-%d %T UTC"`. E.g., `IH_NOW=$$($(IH_PATH) -t)`

**TIMECHECK_PATH**

> Using glob-thecktime(1) to get the system-time delay between the server and you computer.

## Clean

Why we need clean? I don't know. But you need clean those temporary files. The follwing texts are based on putting the temporary files into `.ignore` directory.
So it will be:
```Makefile
clean:
	@rm -f .ignore/*
```

## Time Check

When the absolute time-diff bewteen the server and your http request's timestamp is greater then 6 seconds, the request will be rejected,
and the thing did not answer.
So we need to fill in such gap, and "time check" is the way how we get the length of that gap. And the we will fill this gap with glob-ih(1).
And there is an example of timecheck.
```Makefile
check-delay:
	@$(ECHO) $(CURL_PATH) $(CURL_DETAIL) ' -X GET ' $(SITE_URL)/@/~servertime | $(SHELL) | $(TIMECHECK_PATH)
```

# UPLOAD

This section will talk about upload with cURL(1) and GNU-make(1).

For uploading with cURL(1), the method of HTTP request is PUT, and 8 POST datas. Some of them are necessary, but some are not.
They are type, created time, updated time, title, summary, whose, MIME-type, and tags, and type and two times are necessary.
For example:
```shell
@$(ECHO) $(CURL_PATH) $(CURL_DETAIL) ' -X PUT -F "type=post" ' \
	' -F "create-time=2016-01-01 00:00:00 UTC" ' \
	' -F "update-time=2016-01-01 00:00:00 UTC" ' \
	' -F "title=Home" ' \
	' -F "html=@path" ' \
	$(SITE_URL)/ ' ' | $(IH_PTH) -m -f$(IH_DELAY) -v $(PSK) | $(SHELL)
```

```shell
@$(ECHO) $(CURL_PATH) $(CURL_DETAIL) ' -X PUT -F "type=binary" ' \
	' -F "create-time=2016-01-01 00:00:00 UTC" ' \
	' -F "update-time=$(IH_NOW)" ' \
	' -F "title=null" ' \
	' -F "binary=@path" ' \
	' -F "mime=image/x-png" ' \
	$(SITE_URL)/img/fork.me.png ' ' | $(IH_PATH) -m -f$(IH_DELAY) -v $(PSK) | $(SHELL)
```

For each POST data, there is the table about them.

Field | Description | Necessary
----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------
type | The kind of resource you want to upload. Domain:{ post, frame(DELETE and PUT), text, binary, static, query }. | Yes
create-time | The timestamp of when this resource was created. In Haskell time style, e.g. `date -u "+%Y-%m-%d %T UTC"`. | Yes
update-time | The timestemp of when this resource will be (or is being) uploaded. In Haskell time style. | Yes
title | The title of each resource. If null, set null. | Yes
summary | The summary of this resource. If null, ignore it. Domain:{ @/the/path/for/file, texts }. | No
whose | The owner or author of this resource. If null, ignore it. | No
mime | The MIME-type of this resource. | No
tag  | A tag of this resource. | No
tags | Tags of this resource, split by space. | No
html | The context of the post and the frame. Domain:{ @/the/path/for/file }. | When post or frame.
text | The context of the text file. Domain:{ @/the/path/for/file }. | When text.
binary | The context of the binary file. Domain:{ @/the/path/for/file }. | When binary.
url | The permanently moved resource's url | When static
var | The context of the query's data | When query

## About Navigation

Field | Description
-------|---------------------
index | The index of the link.
url | The url of the link.
order | The order of the link.

