% glob-launch(1)
% Qinka <qinka@live.com> <qinka@qinka.pw>
% 10-Feb-2017

# NAME
glob-launch - the launcher of Glob and the main part of Glob

# SYNOPSIS

**glob-launch** [-c|-f|--from[=stdin|FILEPATH]]  
**glob-launch** -?|--help  
**glob-launch** -V|--version  

# DESCRIPTION

**glob-launch** is the main part of glob and it's also the launcher of Glob. Setting the config file and launch it.

**glob-launch** can load config file from stdin and file. And the default of where config is read is *stdin*. 
If you want to use file, use the flag `-f`, `-c`, or `--config`.

Both YAML and JSON can be parsed.

# OPTIONS

`-f file`, `-c file`, `--config=file`

> The path of config file or just type 'stdin'. If you do not set this flag, the default of this option will be 'stdin'.

`-?`, `--help`

> To print the help of glob-launch.

`-V`, `--version`

> To print the version of glob-launch.

`-v`, `--verbose`

> To print the detail when glob-launch running

`-q`, `--quiet`

> To print less when glob-lanuch

# CONFIG FILE

The config file of can be JSON or YAML. And you needn't to point out wheher your config file is JSON or YAML.
And the following is what we need in configure file.

## FOR GLOB

_**port**_

> This one point out the port glob will be listened. [NUMBER]

_**title**_

> This one point out the title of site. [STRING]

_**public-key**_

> This one point out the absolute path of the directory where hold the public keys.

_**log-path**_

> This one point out where to write the log of site. [PATH or stdout]

_**listen-type**_

> This one point out the listen type of site, including:
> any, ipv4, ipv6, ipv4 only, ipv6 only. [STRING: *, *4, !4, *6, !6]

_**database**_

> This one, a collection of settings, is about the database settings. [STRING]

## FOR DATABASE

_**hostaddr**_

> The host name or ip address of the database. [URL]

_**database**_

> The name of the database which will be used. [STRING]

_**access-mode**_

> The master mode or the slaver mode. [STRING: master or slaver]

_**username**_

> The name of database' user, which has the right of access, when authentication is needed. [STRING]

_**password**_

> The password of database's user, which has the right of access, when authentication is needed. [STRING]

_**pool-stripes**_

> The number of stripes (distinct sub-pools) to maintain. [NUMBER]

_**pool-kept-time**_

> Amount of time for which an unused resource is kept open. [NUMBER]

_**pool-strp-max**_

> Maximum number of resources to keep open per stripe. [NUMBER]

# EXAMPLE 

For here, an example of config file in JSON form:

```json
{ "port" : 3000
, "database" :
  { "hostaddr" :"localhost"
  , "database" :"dev10"
  , "access-mode":"master"
  , "username":"dev10"
  , "password":"dev10"
  , "pool-stripes":10
  , "pool-kept-time":100
  , "pool-strp-max":10
  }
, "title" : "Glob SSSTA"
, "public-key":"/etc/glob/public.key/"
, "log-path" :"stdout"
, "listen-type":"*"
}
```
And we suppose that file is named "config.json".
The command to run this one is:
```shell
glob-launch -c config.json
```
or
```shell
cat config.json | glob-launch
```
.

And ` +RTS -N -RTS ` will use all processors.
